= Renamer - The perfect tool to easily rename your files

<em>Last Modified: 2008-10-22</em>


== 1. Installing

=== 1.1. I don't understand how to compile Renamer.

No problem ! :-)

You don't have to compile Renamer because it is written in Ruby. Ruby is a
scripting language. It means that all the code is interpreted at run time by
the Ruby interpretor. So to use it, you just have to type :

<tt>$ renamer --help</tt>

on the command-line if it is well installed.

=== 1.2. How do I install Renamer on my system?

To install Renamer from the official gem, you just must have the Gem packaging
system installed (http://rubygems.rubyforge.org) and type

<tt># gem install Renamer</tt>

and if you've already downloaded the gem, you have to type :

<tt># gem install Renamer-X.X.X.gem</tt>

where <em>X.X.X</em> has to be replace by the gem version number.

This will install all the required files in the good directories. That's all, you can now type :

<tt>$ renamer --help</tt>


== 2. Using Renamer

=== 2.1. Why using Renamer ?

Because Renamer makes it easy to rename any number of files on any filesystem
without knowing anything about shell scripting or regular expressions (regexp).
Renamer is able to lowercase, uppercase, delete white-spaces and a lot more. It's
fast, light and easy to use.

=== 2.2. I've launched Renamer, but I'm lost, what can I do?

Renamer is very easy to use, if you don't know how to use it you can type :

<tt>$ renamer --help</tt>

It will show you some help about the possible options and how to use them.

== 3. Development

=== 3.1. How should I report bugs?

You can submit your bug at http://bounga.lighthouseapp.com/projects/18642-renamer/tickets/new with <em>bug</em> tag

=== 3.2.  How should I submit patches?

You can submit your patch at http://bounga.lighthouseapp.com/projects/18642-renamer/tickets/new with <em>patch</em> tag

=== 3.3.  How should I submit new feature request?

You can submit your request at http://bounga.lighthouseapp.com/projects/18642-renamer/tickets/new with <em>feature</em> tag

=== 3.4.  Will Renamer be ported to *BSD, QNX, MacOS X, Microsoft Windows ?

Yes. In fact, it's surely already usable for these OS and all OS that have a
Ruby interpreter. Ruby is very portable and we don't have to modify the source
code to allow it to run on various OS. You have to know that developers use
Unix-like OS so it's was not tested on Microsoft Windows.

=== 3.5.  I want to help Renamer developers. What can I do?

There's many tasks to do (code, documentation, ...). Please contact us
using IRC or e-mail, and look at this page: http://bounga.lighthouseapp.com/projects/18642-renamer/tickets?q=state%3Aopen
It lists all the open tasks. You can also look at the TODO and BUGS files
available in the package.

=== 3.6.  Can I give money or other things to Renamer developers?

If you really want to do this you can. You should contact a developer to know
what to do.
